.TH btrfs\-snapshots 8
.SH NAME
btrfs\-snapshots \- Manage timestamped collections of btrfs snapshots
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY btrfs\-snapshots
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.RI [ ACTION ]
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
The purpose of \fBbtrfs\-snapshots\fR is to make the process of taking subvolume
snapshots automatic and predictable.
.PP
It makes no assumptions about the subvolume layout.  It does not modify the
system in any way.  It does have two strict requirements, however, which are
debatably painless:
.IP \[bu]
A snapshot's base name is the ISO-8601 formatted UTC timestamp when it was taken
(i.e. %Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ).
.IP \[bu]
The snapshots for each subvolume must be in their own directory.
.SH ACTIONS
.TP
.B list
Print to stdout the absolute path of every recognized snapshot for the selected
profiles. This is the default action, if unspecified.
.TP
.B create
Create a new snapshot in the configured directory for the selected profiles.
Any subvolumes that are not mounted will be skipped with a warning message.
.TP
.B prune
Delete all snapshots for the selected profiles that fall outside of the
configured limits.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-? ", " \-\-help
Display the help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " --profile = \fINAME\fP
Select a profile to perform ACTION on.  Can be specified multiple times.
.TP
.BR \-C ", " --config-dir = \fIDIRECTORY\fP
Look for configuration files in DIRECTORY instead of \fI/usr/local/etc\fP.
.SH TIMERS
While not a requirement, the intention is that snapshots will be automatically
created and pruned using the included
.BR systemd.timer (5).
Both timers must be enabled explicitly.
.TP
.I btrfs\-snapshots\-create.timer
This timer creates snapshots for all configured subvolumes at a regular interval
(hourly, by default).
.TP
.I btrfs\-snapshots\-prune.timer
This timer deletes all of the snapshots that fall outside of the configured
limits at a regular interval (daily, by default).
.PP
You could, of course, configure those for a different schedule, or use another
scheduler, like cron.
.SH SHELL COMPLETION
.PP
Completion functions for bash and zsh are included and will be available by
default, provided shell completion is enabled and configured correctly.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR btrfs\-snapshots.conf (5)
