.TH btrfs\-snapshots.conf 5
.SH NAME
btrfs\-snapshots.conf \- btrfs-snapshots configuration files
.SH SYNOPSIS
/usr/local/etc/btrfs-snapshots/defaults.conf
.br
/usr/local/etc/btrfs-snapshots/profile.d/*.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
Configuration of btrfs\-snapshots involves placing a \fIprofile.conf\fR file for
each subvolume required in the \fIprofile.d\fR directory. The file name does
not matter, but it's recommended to name it after the subvolume it represents
(e.g. \fI@home.conf\fP). The extension must be ".conf" for the file to be recognized.
.PP
Additionally, default settings can be added to \fIdefaults.conf\fR (with some
caveats) that will apply to every profile.
.PP
None of these files exist by default, and configuration is left to the
administrator. Example files with the available settings are at:
.IP
\fI/usr/local/share/doc/btrfs-snapshots/config/defaults.conf
.br
\fI/usr/local/share/doc/btrfs-snapshots/config/profile.conf
.SH OPTIONS
Both the defaults configuration file and every profile configuration file can
have the same settings, with a few enforced caveats.
.IP \[bu]
The SUBVOLUME setting is only recognized in the profile configuration and it is
required.
.IP \[bu]
The SNAPSHOTS setting, if it appears in the defaults configuration file, must
contain a %s placeholder so it can be differentiated for each subvolume.
.IP \[bu]
If the SNAPSHOTS setting is not defined in the defaults configuration file, it
must be defined in every profile, and must be unique.
.TP
.BR SUBVOLUME ="/path/to/subvolume"
This option defines the location of the subvolume to use as the source for
snapshots. It's required, and must be an absolute path to the mount point of the
subvolume.
.IP
If, during snapshot creation, the subvolume is not mounted, execution continues
and a warning is emitted.
.TP
.BR SNAPSHOTS ="/path/to/snapshots"
This option defines the location that will be used to store a subvolume's
snapshots.  If snapshots will be kept in a central location, like
\fI/.snapshots\fR, it's recommended to set this in the defaults configuration
file (inluding the %s placeholder). This setting could, of course, be set
individually in each profile configuration or only overridden for certain
profiles.
.IP
For example, let's say it's defined in the defaults configuration file as
"/.snapshots/%s". There are three profiles in \fIprofile.d\fR named
\fI@.conf\fR, \fI@home.conf\fR, and \fI@var.conf\fR. The command to create
snapshots is run at 12 noon (UTC) on December 31st 2021.  There will be three
snapshots created and stored like so:
.IP
.EX
/.snapshots
├── @
│   └── 2021-12-31T12:00:00Z
├── @home
│   └── 2021-12-31T12:00:00Z
└── @var
    └── 2021-12-31T12:00:00Z
.EE
.IP
.IR Note :
When pruning snapshots, any not named using the recognized timestamp format will
be ignored. This is useful if there have been manual snapshots taken and you
don't want them to be pruned along with the timestamped ones.
.TP
.BR LIMIT_<EVENT> =<NUMBER>
Where EVENT can be one of the following: MINUTELY, HOURLY, DAILY,
WEEKLY, MONTHLY, QUARTERLY, or YEARLY.
.IP
This option defines a limit on the number of the snapshots taken during an EVENT
recurrence. Only the earliest snapshot for each unique event is retained, for
the NUMBER most recent events, up to the defined limit.
.IP
There can be zero or more limits set. If the limit for an event type is not set
in the profile configuration, the value set in the defaults configuration file
is used. If it's not set anywhere, it's assumed to be "0" (disabled, or, in
other words, keep a maximum of zero snapshots for that event type during
pruning).
.IP
For example, if \fI@home.conf\fP contains the line "LIMIT_HOURLY=3" and the
following snapshots exist:
.IP
.EX
/.snapshots/@home
    ├── 2021-12-31T09:00:00Z
    ├── 2021-12-31T09:30:00Z
    ├── 2021-12-31T10:00:00Z
    ├── 2021-12-31T10:30:00Z
    ├── 2021-12-31T11:00:00Z
    ├── 2021-12-31T11:30:00Z
    ├── 2021-12-31T12:00:00Z
    └── 2021-12-31T12:30:00Z
.EE
.IP
Running the prune action will delete snapshots, leaving the tree looking like this:
.IP
.EX
/.snapshots/@home
    ├── 2021-12-31T10:00:00Z
    ├── 2021-12-31T11:00:00Z
    └── 2021-12-31T12:00:00Z
.EE
.IP
Because the hourly limit was set to "3", a total of only three snapshot could be
kept. The algorithm found the most recent three unique events' snapshots up to
the limit value, but only keeping the first snapshot (chronologically) for each
distinct hour.
.IP
Both snapshots occurring earlier than 10am were deleted because they were part
of the fourth unique event, falling outside of the limit for that event type.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR btrfs\-snapshots (8),
