.TH btrfs\-snapshots.conf 5

.SH NAME
btrfs\-snapshots.conf - btrfs-snapshots main configuration file

.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/btrfs-snapshots.conf

.SH DESCRIPTION
Configuration options for btrfs-snapshots are stored in this file. Currently,
the only options available are defaults that are used in the absence of options
defined in each subvolume's configuration profile.

An example file is located at \fI/usr/share/btrfs-snapshots/main.conf\fR.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP \fBDEFAULT_SNAPSHOTS\fR="/path/to/snapshots/%NAME%"
This option defines the default snapshot location for subvolumes that do not
have the corresponding option in their profile defined. This is useful in cases
where you have a central location for snapshots, but have them subdivided by
name. If set, it's required that %NAME% appear somewhere in the right-hand side.
This will be replaced at run time with the profile name.

For example, let's say it's defined as `/.snapshots/%NAME%`. There are three
profiles in \fI/etc/btrfs-snapshots.d\fR named `@.conf`, `@home.conf`, and
`@var.conf`. The command to create snapshots is run at 12 noon (UTC) on December
31st 2021.  There will be three snapshots created and stored like so:

.RS 16
.nf
/.snapshots
├── @
│   └── 2021-12-31T12:00:00Z
├── @home
│   └── 2021-12-31T12:00:00Z
└── @var
    └── 2021-12-31T12:00:00Z
.fi
.RE

.IP \fBDEFAULT_LIMIT_<EVENT>\fR=<NUMBER>
This option defines a default limit on the number (specified with NUMBER) of
first snapshots taken during EVENT, where EVENT is one of the following:
MINUTELY, HOURLY, DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY, QUARTERLY, or YEARLY.

There can be zero or more default limits set. For any default limit left
unspecified, the implicit value for NUMBER is zero (0). See
\fBbtrfs\-snapshots.d\fR(5) for details on how limits work.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR btrfs\-snapshots (8),
.BR btrfs\-snapshots.d (5)
